---
layout: post
title: Week 1 Research Findings
---

Git Feature Branching
{:.lead}

The Feature Branch workflow model for Git version control is the way to go, hands-down. Due to some scheduling rearrangement with the Advising team, I was able to take Deployment of Web Applications last month, and the team I worked on used the Feature Branch model for development. It was an enormous help to ensure that we developers wouldn't conflict with one another's work, and meanwhile we could navigate and manage merge conflicts virtually in real time as we progressed.

Agile Research
{:.lead}

The Agile Project Management (APM) philosophy is a great way to keep a development project moving forward. It works really well in conjunction with the Feature Branch model because sprints—-and therefore development—-don't have to stop to wait for another step to be completed first. Since Agile is a philosophy with a constant forward velocity, projects can continue apace until milestones are met and a feature is ready for approval.

LAMP & MEAN
{:.lead}

The Academind developer used some great server-side concepts in the research videos for the week. I like the use of frameworks like Node and Laravel to rapidly scaffold out a server-side project with some basic routing, etc. The templating engines are also a major help, allowing for dynamically-served content to be rendered in real time based on HTTP requests rather than being rendered in a static page. Since my team plans to use a MEAN stack, I focused primarily on the Node.js videos, and I am very interested in the use of Mongoose to manage the MongoDB connections. In a previous project I used MongoDB but did not have the option to use Mongoose and had to write all of the models by hand. Mongoose looks to be a huge time-saving option.